Add bulk products, variants, stocks guide (#1539)
saleor/saleor-docs: docs/developer/bulks/bulk-products.mdx

---
title: Bulk Product Import
---

This guide describes mutations allowing users to create multiple products and variants in Saleor. 

> ## Permissions
> 
> To perform bulk operations on products and variants, a user needs the `MANAGE_PRODUCTS` permission.

Reviewer: **style (non-blocking)**:

```suggestion
:::info
To perform bulk operations on products and variants, you need the `MANAGE_PRODUCTS` permission.
:::
```

## Error Policy

`productBulkCreate`, `productVariantBulkCreate`, and `productVariantBulkUpdate` 
mutations accept [`errorPolicy`](./error-policy.mdx) argument, which determines how to handle errors.

> ## productBulkCreate

Reviewer: **style (non-blocking):**

```suggestion
## `productBulkCreate`
```

Mutation [`productBulkCreate`](/api-reference/products/mutations/product-bulk-create) allows to create multiple products in a single operation. This is particularly useful when you need to:

- Import products from another system
- Create multiple products with their variants at once
- Set up initial product catalog

The mutation supports creating products with their:
- Basic information (name, description, etc.)
- Attributes and values
- Channel listings and pricing
- Media files
- Variants with their own attributes, stocks, and channel listings

> ### Mutation example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example Mutation
```

              "price": 599
            },
            {
              "channelId": "Q2hhbm5lbDox",
              "price": 149
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "sku": "60217252-00-44",
          "attributes": [
            {
              "id": "QXR0cmlidXRlOjM3",
              "values": [
                "42"
              ]
            }
          ],
          "stocks": [
            {
              "warehouse": "V2FyZWhvdXNlOjJiNDY1OTU2LWYzMmUtNGU4OC04ZWQyLTBhN2I4ODBlMTkxYg==",
              "quantity": 100
            }
          ],
          "channelListings": [
            {
              "channelId": "Q2hhbm5lbDoy",
              "price": 599
            },
            {
              "channelId": "Q2hhbm5lbDox",
              "price": 149
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Input details

For detailed information about all available fields, see the [`ProductBulkCreateInput`](/api-reference/products/inputs/product-bulk-create-input).

:::warning
The `productType` field is required and must reference a valid product type ID.

Product `name` must be provided when importing products.
:::

> #### Key fields to consider:

Reviewer: **style**:

IMO, this does not look like a subheading. It should either be bolded text or reworded (e.g., `Considerations`).

- **Taxes**: Allows to assign tax class to the product. Must reference a valid tax class ID.
- **Media**: Allows to add images and other media files to the product.
- **Variants**: Allows to create variants along with product creation. See [`ProductVariantBulkCreateInput`](/api-reference/products/inputs/product-variant-bulk-create-input) for details.

### Error handling

Each product in the bulk operation can have its own set of errors. 
These errors appear in `results[].errors` array and are specific to individual products. 

Common error scenarios include:

- **Channel-related errors**:
  - `NOT_FOUND`: Channel ID doesn't exist
  - `PRODUCT_NOT_ASSIGNED_TO_CHANNEL`: Product variant channel listing references a channel where the product is not available
  - `DUPLICATED_INPUT_ITEM`: Channel ID is duplicated in the input

- **Variant-related errors**:
  - `UNIQUE`: SKU already exists in the system
  - `REQUIRED`: Missing required fields for variant creation
  - `INVALID_PRICE`: Price value is invalid

- **Attribute-related errors**:
  - `INVALID`: Invalid attribute value
  - `REQUIRED`: Missing required attribute

> ## productVariantBulkCreate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `productVariantBulkCreate`
```

- **Attribute-related errors**:
  - `REQUIRED`: Missing required attribute field: `id` or `external_references`
  - `NOT_FOUND`: Attribute ID doesn't exist
  - `ATTRIBUTE_CANNOT_BE_ASSIGNED`: Given attributes are not variant attributes

- **Stock-related errors**:
  - `NOT_FOUND`: Warehouse ID doesn't exist

## productVariantBulkUpdate

Mutation [`productVariantBulkUpdate`](/api-reference/products/mutations/product-variant-bulk-update) 
allows to update multiple variants in a single operation. This is particularly useful when you need to:

- Update prices across multiple variants
- Modify stock quantities in bulk
- Update variant attributes
- Change channel availability

The mutation supports updating variants with their:
- Basic information (SKU, name)
- Attributes and values
- Stocks and quantities
- Channel listings and pricing
- And many more available variant fields

### Mutation example

```graphql
mutation ProductVariantBulkUpdate($product: ID!, $variants: [ProductVariantBulkUpdateInput!]!, $errorPolicy: ErrorPolicyEnum) {
  productVariantBulkUpdate(product:$product, variants: $variants, errorPolicy: $errorPolicy) {
    count

>     errors{

Reviewer: **style**: Please put the GraphQL examples through some formatting software 🙏

```suggestion
    errors {
```
